>>ROBERT PHOENIX: Hi, welcome
back to "The Eleventh House."
I'm your host, Robert Phoenix.
And this happens to be
the eleventh episode
of "The Eleventh House."
So for all you numerology
freaks out there,
it's 11/11 right here on
the set of "The Eleventh
House" with me, Robert Phoenix.
So today what we're
going to do is
we're going to continue to look
at astrology as an art form,
as a science, as a tool,
as a piece of navigation
for your own personal life.
And we're going to get into
the astrological wheel itself.
It's a fascinating,
absolutely fascinating symbol
and geometric map
and guidance system
for living here on this
third-dimensional experience.
So what we're going to do today,
as we break the wheel down,
is we're going to look
at each house and what
the individual meaning of
each house, and what it rules.
But I'm also going to show
you the evolutionary arc
of the wheel itself,
and how it relates
to the individual in society
and culture at large.
So let's start with
the first house, which
is the house of Aries.
The entire wheel is 360 degrees,
and each house is 30 degrees.
So 12 times 30 is 360.
At one point in time,
that was our calendar.
We had five days tacked
on to our calendar.
So now we've got this kind
of unwieldy 365-day calendar,
which does not relate to the
360-degree calendar which
is associated with astrology.
So let's get into the first
house, which is Aries.
Zero degrees,
starts right there.
We're going to come
around ultimately
to 360 degrees, which is
Pisces, but right now-- actually
359 degrees-- so zero degrees,
Aries, starts right there.
And Aries is the first house,
and it represents the self.
So what we're
trying to do here is
we're trying to get you to
understand how to use this
as a tool to read a chart.
So let's just use
this as an example.
We have Aries, the first house.
The key words here for the sign,
the trailblazer, independence,
and image.
And the first house
is almost always
associated with how we
appear to the world,
especially with the ascendant.
And some astrologers--
and I'm one of them--
believe that as we
get older, we become
more of our ascendant
in some ways.
We're born with a sun sign.
But it's the ascendant that
we're always acting through.
It's the ascendant that
we're always living through.
It's the face.
It's the persona that
we're showing the world.
Now since we do this
on a daily basis,
it's going to be sort
of a fait accompli
that we become more of
our ascendant over time.
So if you are, let's
say, a Libra sun,
and you're a Pisces
ascendant, over time
you'll become more Piscean.
You will not lose
your Libran core,
but you will understand
and move through the world
more as a Pisces
than as a Libra.
Now every single sign has its
own strategy on the ascendant.
And the strategy
is developed when
the individual's quite young.
And the strategy is really
a survival strategy.
And a lot of times when
you look at a chart,
you can actually see
how a person was raised,
based on what
their ascendant is.
For instance, I'll have a
confessional moment here.
I am a Scorpio
rising, and growing up
was a challenge for
me because I had,
at times, an
unsettling childhood.
It was a kind of a
chaotic, and at times
even violent, childhood.
So as a Scorpio rising, what I
had to do through my ascendant
is I had to understand the world
through a Scorpionic context.
I had to understand
where there could
be danger lurking at any moment.
Or I had to
understand where there
would be power that would
be exhibited in any given
situation.
So I became very good
at reading a room.
I became really good at
sensing how people could react,
or how people could
have emote, or how
people could express themselves.
And as a result, I began to
be able to hone and refine
my Scorpio rising, and move it
from a survival skill, which
I had to learn as a child, to
a skill where now I'm actually
using it as an astrologer
to help understand people,
to help people
understand themselves.
So this is just
one aspect of how
we use the rising
sign as a strategy.
Another aspect would be, let's
say, Libra on the ascendant.
People that are born
with a Libra ascendant,
they tend to use their charm.
They tend to use their wit.
They tend to use their, at
times, personal beauty in order
to navigate through the
perhaps at times unsteady,
or challenging, or tricky
landscape as a child.
But generally speaking, people
who have Libra on the ascendant
don't necessarily have
difficult or rough childhoods.
They tend to have more
harmonious and balanced
childhoods than a
lot of other people.
But that said, if they
do have a situation
where things are complex or they
have to get out of a situation,
they'll revert to
charm or they'll
revert to some form of
flattery, or whatever
that thing is that is Libran.
They'll plug in and
they'll use that
as part of their ascendant.
And of course over
time, theoretically,
we would use these less for
survival strategies and tools,
and more for personal
growth and helping us grow
and helping other people grow.
But that's just one
component of the ascendant.
Another component of the
ascendant in the first house
is how we appear to the
world, how we show up.
One of the aspects
of somebody who's
a Capricorn on the
ascendant, they
would have craggy
features sometimes.
Or they would have-- as a youth,
they would look quite old.
And as they get older, they
would begin to get younger.
That's another component
of Capricorn rising.
Sometimes with Capricorn
in the ascendant,
there can be an uneven
nature with the form.
One leg might be
longer than the other.
Or one arm might be
There's something about
Capricorn on the ascendant that
makes the individual appear
different and stand out.
And as a result, the
Capricorn ascendant
tends to be a bit more aloof,
tends to hold themselves
back more in terms
of interaction
and communicating and
relating with other people.
So there's a number of different
ways in which a person can be,
at times, identified
through the ascendant.
It's absolutely fascinating.
And as a result,
there is a strategy.
Now there's also a way in
which we present ourselves
through the ascendant.
Somebody who's a
Leo on the ascendant
might have really
long hair, or they
may have a type of style that
is really colorful and flowing,
and something that looks like,
almost like robes at times.
So there is this whole notion
that we can project ourselves
through the ascendant
into the world.
And it is dictated by sign.
Now sometimes that
will change when
there's a transit
through the chart.
Now if somebody has-- let's
say they're an Aries ascendant,
and right now
Uranus is transiting
through the sign of Aries.
They'll have Uranus in
their first house, which
would absolutely
change their identity,
and it would change how they
would appear to the world.
They would take more
risks with their identity,
because that's what Uranus does.
They may get involved in
something that is dangerous,
and something that might
have a bit of an edge
to it, like jumping
out of airplanes.
Or they may get involved
with MMA, or something
that would be very
Aries, but also
have kind of a
unique angle to it,
which would be very Uranian.
And there could be a very
different style of dress
that manifests as a result.
So this is how the
first house operates.
It colors how we
appear to the world.
And every sign-- every
one of the 12 signs--
can be a part of
the first house.
It doesn't always
have to be Aries.
Just because Aries rules the
first house, and the sign
of the first house could
be, as we mentioned,
Scorpio or Cancer or Libra
or Pisces or Capricorn--
any one of them.
It all depends on the rising
sign at the time of the birth.
Now how this works is-- we're
going to get into this-- Aries
represents the individual.
It represents pure
will that is manifest.
There is nothing really
complex about Aries
as a symbol for the first house.
It is the arrival of the
self onto the planet.
That's what Aries represents.
That's what the first
house represents.
Now we go down to the second
house, and here we are.
This is Taurus.
It is a fixed house.
Here we have some
more keywords--
the grower,
productivity, stability.
And here's where we get into
the evolution of the self
as we move around the chart.
Here we have pure will
manifest the arrival.
Now we come into Taurus.
Now we come into the body.
It's the first earth sign.
We're young, we're babies,
we have these very Taurean
moments.
We have to learn how
to go to the bathroom.
We have to begin to learn
to take care of ourselves.
This is where, fortunately
or unfortunately,
we become aware of
our bodily functions
at a very basic,
fundamental level.
This is where toilet
training comes into play.
This is the first chakra.
This is all very earth,
root-related stuff, right here
in the first house.
So here we have,
again, this evolution
of the individual arrival and
boom, coming into the body,
figuring out how the body works.
Taurus rules the voice
as well, and speaking.
Here in the second
house it's about values.
It's about materiality.
It's about land.
It's about the metals.
It's about the earth
itself-- growing things.
It's real, basic,
fundamental stuff.
And if you've ever
hung out with anybody
who have planets in
the second house,
one of the things that they
value the most is money.
They're really into money,
material possessions, material
goods, growing and
building things.
People that have Jupiter
in the second house-- which
we call an accidental
exultation,
because Jupiter is exalted
in Taurus-- people who
have Jupiter in the
second house tend
to do quite well in terms of
finances, money, and material
goods.
I'll give you an example again,
from my own personal life.
My father, he never
graduated from high school.
He had a GED.
But he had Jupiter
in his second house.
And throughout all
of his adult life,
he drove Cadillacs, Mercedes.
He had a boat, rode
BMW motorcycles.
This is a manifestation of
Jupiter in the second house.
Doesn't matter if
you're rich or you've
been endowed with money
from your parents,
or your grandparents.
It just manifests that way.
So if you've got Jupiter in the
second house, congratulations.
You've got a bit of karmic
luck and balancing there.
So now we move to the third
house ruled by Gemini.
Gemini, the talker--
communication, connection.
Here is where we
go from-- again,
we showed up here
as the individual.
We arrived.
Here we find out about our body.
We go through toilet
training-- all that really
basic, fundamental
stuff, you know,
root chakra-related material.
Now we come into
the third house,
Gemini-- talk, talk,
talk, talk, talk.
We begin the learning process.
It is symbolized by
the sign of Gemini,
which is the two as the one.
And this is where we begin
to become aware, slightly
aware of ourselves, slightly
aware of other people
in our lives.
This house rules siblings and
extended family-- cousins,
nephews, things like that.
It also rules early
childhood education,
from nursery school
up until probably
around the end of grade
school and middle school.
This is where we're learning.
That's all the third house.
We're learning how to speak,
we're learning how to add.
We're basically
engaged in this kind
of, again, this
evolutionary arc.
This is the next phase and
cycle of the development
of the individual.
Now in terms of
the second house,
if people have planets
in the second house,
if you know someone that has
Mercury here, or Venus here,
or Mars here, they can tend
to be very active individuals.
The third house
also rules the area
that's around you, like down
the street, around the corner,
or across town.
Those are all very
third house kinds
of areas, aspects, and zones.
Whereas the ninth house
is across the country,
across the planet, the
third house is quite local.
So if somebody
has a large number
planets in the third
house, they could
be involved in local politics.
They can be involved in
local boards of education,
local theater, local drama.
Anything that has to do
with the world around them.
They become very engaged in
that area of their lives.
So that's the third house.
Now we're over here, moving
into the fourth house.
The normal rule of
the fourth house
is Cancer, the empath,
nurturing, security.
This is the home.
The fourth house is the home.
Right here, this
is the Imum Coeli.
This is the IC, also known
as the nadir of the charts.
And this represents the
basic, fundamental structure
and foundation of
the individual--
where they grew up, what
their home life was like, what
their mother was like, what
they like to have around them
in the home, what
they need to nurture.
Sometimes it can
be very positive,
or sometimes it
can be challenged.
That's how charts work out.
If you have, let's say Mars
down here in the fourth house,
or you know somebody that
has Mars in the fourth house,
there's a very
strong chance they
might have experienced
violence in the home.
If you know somebody that has
Jupiter in the fourth house,
maybe they grew up
in a very large home,
or an expansive home,
something like an estate.
If you know somebody has
Venus in the fourth house,
there's a possibility
that they have a real need
to have a very aesthetic
experience in their home.
And they fall in love at home.
They manifest their
relationships at home.
So home, really, home
and mother really
dominate the fourth house.
It also relates to
nostalgia, and to some extent
previous generations as well.
We get some of that up
in the eighth house, too.
But here in the fourth
house now, we're
learning about-- we've
gone from just arriving,
to the basic bodily
function of the individual,
learning, communicating,
understanding
that there are
others in the world.
Now we're moving further
and deeper into the world.
We're moving into things like
restaurants and grocery stores,
which are also very much a
part of the fourth house.
We're engaging with mother.
We're starting to engage also
with the feminine essence,
whether you're male or female.
That's all part of the
fourth house as well.
We begin to sink roots,
and develop roots and have
associations with
the fourth house.
were We begin to
ground as individuals.
Then we move on to the
fifth house, which is Leo.
And Leo is the showman, and
the performance, the performer,
and creativity.
And the fifth house itself
rules things like hobbies,
and passions, and love,
and children, and gambling,
sports to some extent,
and also the father.
So whenever planets show
up in the fifth house,
we have to pay
attention to them.
We have to look at them.
We have to see how
they impact the chart.
Of course we're going to get
into angles later, but where
those angles show up and
line up with other planets
in the chart.
But let me give you an
example of a fifth house Leo.
Let's say there's Saturn
in the fifth house.
Now, traditionally,
Saturn in the fifth house
would show that
an individual may
have a difficult time having
a child in their lives,
especially if the person happens
to be a female or a woman.
Or if they don't have a
difficult time having a child--
because Saturn represents
limitation and contraction--
they can certainly have a
difficult time with children.
And raising the child may
not be the easiest thing.
Or they may have a
difficult time in labor.
So this is one
manifestation, one aspect
of how we see Saturn
in the fifth house.
Or they may have a
difficult time in romance.
They may see love and romance
as something very serious.
So they have to approach
from a very methodical way.
They may not have
a lot of fun when
it comes to romance or
creativity or their passions.
Another, more positive
manifestation--
let's say their sun is
there, their sun sign.
And so that would
be, again, what
we'd call accidental exultation,
because the sun rules
the sign of Leo.
Therefore, the fifth house
would be accidentally exalted,
so we would have almost
like a double Leo energy.
This would be an individual who
would be very expansive, very
passionate, really creative,
would have a real joie
de vivre with life.
And as it relates to the
evolution of the chart, what
we have here is,
again, the individual
now coming into the powers
of their creativity,
and actually falling in love.
This is the house where
people fall in love.
So here you have the roots,
and you step up from the roots,
you step into the
world, boy meets girl,
girl meets boy, boy meets boy.
Whatever that is, it's
happening in the fifth house.
It's the house of first love,
first kiss, first contact,
first embrace, all that stuff.
Now we're moving.
We're moving further
and further away
from this point of arrival
in the first house.
So that takes us
into the sixth house.
Now we've fallen in love,
we've had our first kiss,
our first embrace,
whatever those things are.
We understand kind of a
creative power, to some extent.
But now we come into
the sixth house.
Things start to
get a little more
serious in the sixth house.
This is the house of Virgo,
the purist, efficiency, logic.
In my world, my astrological
world, it the house of purpose.
It is the house of Dharma.
It is the house of healing.
It is the raison d'etre
of the chart in some ways.
If people have planets
in the sixth house,
they have a very
important role to fulfill,
in terms of whatever
those planets are,
whatever their sign
is in, in terms
of it being a type of expression
that they need to manifest
as a work, as a vocation, as a
potential, where they can learn
to serve and add their energy
to this collective experience.
And sometimes it can also
indicate, occasionally,
troubles with health, since
Virgo rules the sixth house.
I look at the health issues
more in terms of transits,
although you can certainly
see them in the natal chart.
But as far as-- let
me give you an example
of something in the
planet in the sixth house.
Let's say, how about
Uranus, an unusual planet
for the sixth house.
That would mean
that the person who
has Uranus in the
sixth house would have,
in some ways, an unusual kind
of work-- that they would
be involved in some form
of potentially healing,
but it would be healing from
kind of an outside perspective.
It might be some form
of spiritual healing,
or some form of
technological healing,
where they're playing with,
maybe, Hulda Clark, or rife
machines, or things
along those lines.
Or maybe it's much
more mainstream.
They become a
radiation technologist,
which would be
apropos for somebody
with Uranus in the sixth house.
But it would certainly be a type
of work that would be unusual,
or slightly outside the
mainstream, or alternative.
Their contribution
may not always
be easily understood
either, but as again, it
relates to the
evolution of the chart,
we've fallen in love
here, we've experienced
our creative powers,
maybe we've even
had our heart broken,
which could take place
in the fifth house.
In the sixth house,
this is where we learn.
This is where we
find our purpose.
find our vocation.
And to me, this
house in some ways
represents high school
or secondary school,
where you begin to master some
of the basic and fundamental
systems of learning reading,
writing, and arithmetic.
But now you're looking
for something else.
You're looking to find
what you're good at.
That's the sixth house.
And in that place,
what do we do?
We wind up meeting people.
We meet people in high school.
We have high school sweethearts.
We begin to have relationships.
And we fall in love again.
We fall in love when
we form relationships,
and that's the seventh house.
That's Libra.
And here, we've come 180 degrees
all the way around the chart.
All the way around the wheel.
So we're halfway now.
We're halfway done.
And what's fascinating is
we've arrived with Aries.
We were just this pure,
undifferentiated expression
of spirit and will.
We just exist, right?
Now when we get to the
seventh house, uh-oh.
There's somebody else here.
There's another person I
have to take into account.
There is the other.
And that's what Libra is
all about-- the peacemaker,
harmony, balance.
It's where we interact.
And we find somebody, and
we say to that person hey,
I really want to be with you.
I want to figure this out.
I want to work this out.
Let's join our lives together.
Let's create some form of union.
It happens in the seventh house.
Now it doesn't always have
to be the type of union
where it manifests in some
form of intimate relationship.
Sometimes there can be
business relationships
and contractual
relationships that
take place in the seventh
house, because Libra
does rule contracts.
However, I've seen this
in a lot of charts,
and I've read a lot of
charts, that when there's
activity in the seventh
house, it almost always gets
played out in terms of
interpersonal relationships,
love relationships
and partnering.
Now here's what happens.
Let me give you another
example of a planet
in the seventh house.
Let's bring in Neptune--
Neptune in the seventh house.
Neptune is a fascinating
planet in that
it can be really fuzzy,
really out of focus.
And it can bring with it a sense
of possibility and divinity
and spirituality,
but also illusion
and not being able to
see things clearly,
not being able to
understand things clearly.
There may be some
form of projection
that goes on with Neptune.
So having Neptune
in the seventh house
might make it difficult
for the individual
to see who they're
involved with on a really
clear and sound basis.
And sometimes that can manifest
in things like dependencies,
codependencies, drug addictions,
and being anchored to somebody
whom you really are
taking up more space
and energy in your
life than they should.
So if you know somebody who has
Neptune in the seventh house,
and are constantly going through
challenges in a relationship,
that's one of the reasons why.
Now ultimately, the
distillation of that
would be kind of
finding a soul mate
in the seventh house
with Neptune there.
But that can be really
difficult and tough sledding.
Even when you find
somebody who theoretically
would be your soul mate,
it's not always a match
made in heaven.
Now what happens here
is in the seventh house,
again, we partner,
we connect, we bond.
And then what happens?
Well, we go to the eighth house.
And that's where we have sex.
That's where we have intimacy.
That's where we take away-- the
eighth house is fascinating.
I'm utterly fascinated
by the eighth house,
because this, to me, is the
continental shelf of the chart.
This is where we walk off
the edge of the chart,
usually with
somebody else's hand.
We walk off the
edge of the chart,
and we are in a
psychic zone that
is filled with depth, that
is filled with mystery.
Sometimes they're
out of our depth,
especially when we get into the
psychic terrain of sexuality.
Because that's the next-- this
is the next kind of step here.
This is the next phase.
This is the next iteration,
the next cycle for partnering
and Libra in the seventh house.
It's where we become confused
in terms of our identity.
It's where two people begin
to merge and they're one,
and they're not
one, and who are you
and who am I. Then we get into
things like power struggles
and power plays, and
all the hidden complexes
and obsessions that are
tucked away in our life,
but tend to come out in
the intimate clinches
in relationship and relating.
And it all happens right
here in the eighth house.
So what else takes place
in the eighth house?
Well, to untangle
all that stuff,
you've got to go to
a psychotherapist,
or you go to a counselor.
In some cases, you
go to a shaman.
And that's where
you begin to try
to get a map to understand
the psychological terrain
of the eighth house.
You begin to move through
sort of this Orphic depth
in the labyrinthian nature
of the eighth house.
You can emerge on the
other side as a more
psychically whole and
individuated person.
Now in a perfect
world, what would
happen in the eighth house
is that you would have some
of gnosis, kind of contact
where all of a sudden,
you pass through this trial
of darkness and unknowing.
And then you come to
a point of clarity.
You come to a point
of realization.
And all of a sudden, you're
a transformed individual.
And that is the strategy
for the eighth house.
Now sometimes you can
get derailed there,
because the eighth
house represents
drugs and alcohol and sex.
So that's all part of
this psychic labyrinth
that the individual
needs to go through.
Let's use a planet
and stick it in there,
and give you an example of
how a planet might show up
in the eighth house.
How about Venus?
Let's take Venus in
the eighth house.
Now I have been
with people who've
had Venus in the eighth house,
and it's really difficult
to get a handle on how
they feel about you.
Because the eighth
house is a hidden house.
The fourth, the
eighth, and the 12th--
they're all hidden houses.
And I like to use these
analogies for the three water
houses.
The fourth house is like a pond.
It's like a well.
These are all very kind of
agrarian images, very close
to home.
You can tap into them.
They're part of your nurturing
experience in the fourth house.
The eighth house
I liken to things
like Loch Ness or Lake Shasta.
These are lakes.
These are large bodies
of water, some of them
they haven't found
the bottom of.
So there's a mystery that's
connected to the eighth house.
You can walk into it.
You can get some kind of
understanding and depth
with it at points in time.
It goes into a very
darker and a place that
has a depth that might
even be unfathomable.
But still, it has much more
of a foundation, and more
of a sense of grounding
than the 12th house, which
is ruled by Pisces,
which is the ocean.
And we'll get into Pisces later.
But those are my metaphors.
Pond, well near the home,
deep lakes, and then
the ocean for the 12th house.
So Venus in the
eighth house would
be somebody who at times
have a secret relationship.
They may be involved
with somebody
who is-- that they can't tell
the rest of the world about.
And again, since
this is my show,
I'll be transparent with you.
When I got married,
I got married
with-- I'm not married anymore--
but when I got married,
I got married with
somebody I worked with.
And we didn't really
know if it was cool
that people knew
that we were married.
We weren't sure if
people were supposed
to get married and
work at the same place.
So what happened?
She didn't tell anybody
for about six months.
It was our secret.
So that's Venus in the eighth
house becoming manifest,
at least in the chart.
That's an example of how
Venus can work on one level.
On another level, you may not
necessarily know or understand
how a person really
feels about you
with Venus in the
eighth house as well.
So the eighth house
is a house of mystery.
And there's one kind of example
of how a planet shows up there.
But let's just say,
for instance, you
go through the
eighth house and you
have this kind of
psychic gnosis.
You break through.
And all of a sudden, this
really numinous experience
becomes manifest to you, and
you have the big picture.
Well, guess what?
The big picture is Sagittarius.
It Is the ninth house.
Let's use the eighth house
and, let's say, ayahuasca,
as an example.
You go through the
ayahuasca experience,
and all of a sudden you have a
much larger religious context,
or a religious sort
of paradigm that you
can bring to the surface.
For instance, I see this
as being very much related
to Moses being on Mount Sinai,
having the Ten Commandments
experience literally
away from everybody else,
at the cusp of the eighth
and the ninth house,
and then coming out into the
ninth house with Sagittarius
and coming up with
religious law or sacred law.
Here we have the feeling,
the experience, the moment,
the psychic realization.
And now as a result, we
go to the ninth house
and we say OK, we've
got all this stuff.
Now we've got to
put names to it.
put a system to it.
Now we've got to ascribe
some kind of meaning to this,
because we have to bring
it back into the world.
And we're moving
further and further out.
It's a more transpersonality.
This is the psychic realm
and the unconscious.
The ninth house
represents churches.
It represents religion.
It represents law.
It represents philosophy,
nature, foreign travel, sports.
That's all part of
the ninth house.
It's very expansive.
But to me, it is the
upper room of the chart.
And it is the area
of the chart where
we come in contact,
in some ways,
with our higher self
because of the elevation
of the ninth house.
So when we have this numinous
experience in the eighth
and we come into the
ninth, it's like,
OK, let's put a name to it.
Let's create a system.
Let's create a university.
Let's create law.
Let's create sacred law,
religion, all those things
that are very ninth
house related.
It's a very expansive house,
and if you have a planet
or know somebody who has
planets in the ninth house,
they tend to be very
philosophical people, or people
that like to look at life
from a heightened perspective.
Let's use another planet
in there for an example.
How about the moon?
Let's put the moon
in the ninth house.
Somebody that has
a moon ninth house
could be very engaged in
a personal kind of quest,
that they would
be, in some ways,
on this very intuitive, very,
very at times emotional,
magnetic journey through life,
that they would go through kind
of a cyclical sort
of development,
in terms of who they
are, where they're going.
They would peel away and shed
their belief systems at times,
because that's
what the moon does.
The moon is always
shifting and phasing,
and moving into
different cycles.
So a ninth house moon
would be an individual that
is not necessarily trying to
find a direct access to truth,
or direct access to a
philosophical position,
but something that would be
ultimately more intuitive,
that they would try to
merge this whole concept
of the higher mind
with their instinct
and with their intuition,
and to kind of bring them
both into focus
and into one being.
Now of course, whatever sign
the moon is in, or Venus is in,
or any other planet
that I've talked about,
that will also color this.
But I'm just giving you kind
of a planetary perspective
of an object in
one of the houses.
So here we are.
Now we're into law.
Now we're into religion.
Now we're into philosophy.
We're into universities.
We've got all these
wonderful things
that are in some
ways, control systems
and organizational
principles, in terms
of how we can live from
a moral perspective.
What's next?
Well, out of that we
have to create society.
Now we come to the 10th house.
And here we engage things
like banking, and politics,
and government, and life
insurance, and skyscrapers,
and architecture.
All of them are connected
to the 10th house.
So you see how we're moving
further and further away.
We started with the
individual here,
just showing up, just arriving,
going all the way through here,
meeting up with another person,
getting into the psychic depths
and the psychic channel of the
eighth house, coming out of it,
and then seeing that we've
got to somehow put names
to this stuff.
And once we put names to it,
now we get to create a world.
Now we get to create
a civilization.
Now we get to create a society.
That's the 10th house.
We've come from the individual
all the way to the collective.
And the current time that
we're living in, really
Pluto in Capricorn,
which is symbolic
in a lot of ways
of the 10th house.
So that's the 10th house.
It is all about the world.
And if you have planets
in the 10th house,
then in a lot of ways, you were
meant to be a public person.
You are meant to be out there.
And you are supposed
to be sharing
whatever manifestation of that
planet is in the 10th house.
So you want an example?
I'll use myself for an example.
I have sun in the
10th house, just
on the other side of the
mid-heaven, right over here.
So what I'm doing is I'm
having a public moment with you
talking about this,
so I'm actually
working my 10th house out.
This is what's taking place.
It's Virgo, I'm
breaking this down,
I'm being analytical about it.
So here we are.
Astrology in Action 101.
That's sun in the 10th house.
So if you have sun
in the 10th house,
you don't necessarily have to
have your own astrology show,
but in this lifetime,
you need to be out front.
You need to be able
to share something
about your own
personal essence that
is going to be seen and
experienced by other people.
And let me just give you an
example again, about my life
and how this has
worked out for me.
Now for a while, like
back in the '90s,
I was really involved
in the music world.
I had a whole other kind of
thing going on with tarot
and being a psychic
and stuff like that.
But I was also really
involved in music.
And one of the things that I
thought that I would be good at
was I thought I would be
good at being a kind of a PR
and a marketing person
for some of my friends,
who are quite good musicians.
And I was OK with
it, but I was never
really quite successful with it.
And the reason why I
was just OK with it
was because I wasn't living
the sun in the 10th house.
I was trying to live
somebody else's sun.
And when I finally realized that
this is where I needed to be,
my life changed.
And it became more directed
and more in alignment
with my chart.
And that's the
beauty of astrology,
is that when you finally figure
out and do what you're supposed
to be doing, you can
see it in the chart.
And once you do it, and
once you are moving with it
and grooving with it, then
all of a sudden, other aspects
of your life begin to
make sense as well.
So that's a sun in
the 10th house story.
So here we have society.
We've got all this money,
we've got all this technology.
We're civilized.
And theoretically, in the
grand scheme of things,
once we reach this
apex, which is
the top of the pyramid--
that's Capricorn--
we've reached the top.
Where we go from there?
Well, we jump off into space.
We jump off into the
space of the 11th house.
And in the 11th house-- which
is this show, obviously--
it's revolutionary, it's
social change, it's liberation.
It's the world of tomorrow.
That's what the 11th house is.
It's utopia.
It's these grand kinds
of social schemes.
It can be communism,
it can be socialism,
it can be the zeitgeist guys,
with their project Venus.
Whatever that sort of ideal
utopian experience is,
it's the 11th house.
Because theoretically-- think
about this-- theoretically,
this is how it's
supposed to work.
By this time we've
reached the 10th house,
we're supposed to be at the
apex of our civilization.
All of our ability to tap into
energy sources, whether it's
the planet's energy, or whether
it's things like free energy
or tapping the zero
point, at some point,
we have to make this
cultural transition,
so that we are moving
away from ascent
and moving more into
an omnidirectional and
omnidimensional experience
of life on this planet.
And part of the key
to this is technology.
And not technology
that would enslave us.
It's not surveillance
technology.
It's not the
technology that's going
to catch you on a
camera at a stoplight.
It's the technology
that's related
to things like free energy.
It's technology that
will have our cars get
100 miles to the gallon.
It's technology
that will allow us
to grow hydroponic
foods in our own homes.
I mean, these are the types of
technologies that can really
liberate us into the 11th
house and into this whole idea
that we're moving away from the
Capricornian moment of ascent
into a much more
omnidirectional,
omnidimensional space where
humanity has a shot-- where
the rich and the poor and
the black and the white,
we all co-mingle
in the 11th house.
And we're all relatively equal.
And the thing that levels the
playing field for all of us,
theoretically, should
be technology--
heart-based
technology that could
take living on this planet
to a whole other level.
But until we get that,
until we incorporate that,
and until our consciousness
is ready to accept that,
then the 11th house
will be incomplete.
We're at this-- or
experience of the 11th house
will be incomplete.
We're at this place
of transition here.
And I'm just talking about
the evolution of the chart,
the evolution of the individual,
society, culture in general,
right?
But in terms of the individual
itself in the 11th house,
if you have planets
there, you would
tend to be a very social person.
You would have a lot of friends.
You would have
Aquarian kinds of goals
and desires and interests.
So again, I'll use my chart.
I've got four planets
in the 11th house--
Mercury, Moon, and Venus,
so I'm very engaged
in this whole kind of
Aquarian, Uranian, 11th house
exploration in my own life.
But let's say you have
a planet up there,
and the planet
that you have there
would be-- how about Pluto?
Let's see a Pluto
in the 11th house.
You would have Pluto there,
and your goal, your desire,
your personal mission,
your astrological imprint
for that house would be
to transform society--
to transform culture, to
transform these Aquarian
systems that we're
talking about.
So you may be on the
frontlines of human rights.
Or you may be on the
frontlines of bringing
some of the technology I'm
talking about into the world,
because you can see
that it's important.
You can see that it matters.
You have a personal
mission in life,
and you feel very
strongly about it.
Because that's what Pluto does.
It evokes feelings of
intensity and mission
and purpose in our lives.
So that's the 11th house.
And as we move further away from
the 11th house, here we are.
We're in this kind of, ideally,
this great, wonderful sort
of paradise, and we're all
singing Kumbaya together.
We're all driving
around in flying
cars that are getting
200 miles per gallon.
And we can beam port to
Betelgeuse or Alpha Centauri,
wherever that is.
That's the 11th house wet dream.
Well, where we go from there?
We go into the 12th house,
and we go to Pisces.
And we started off here
with the individual,
and we've gone all
the way around.
And we've come to this
point where everything
dissolves and goes back to God.
It all goes and
returns to the Godhood.
The cosmic ocean, the void.
And humanity slips back out
into the space in which we came,
in which we were
pre-manifest, or un-manifest.
That's what the 11th house is.
And this is where the
individual leaves.
This is the house of the soul.
We come into the first.
And we leave through the 12th.
The dreamer, death,
rebirth, ideals.
That's all the 12th house.
And it's a very
mysterious house.
And people that have planets
in the 12th house natally,
they could have a very
difficult time in life,
especially if the sun
is there or Saturn
is there, to some extent
Neptune, certainly Mars.
These are planets where if
they're in the 12th house,
which is a house that's
hidden away from us,
symbolized by things like
mental institutions and prisons
and nunneries and monasteries.
Those are all 12th house
kinds of institutions.
When you get into
the 12th house,
it's all tucked
away from the world.
You can't see it.
And it's even tucked
away from the individual.
That's how deep
the 12th house is.
With the 12th house, if
you have planets there,
the soul always
has the first move.
You're always, always
waiting for this kind
of emergent energy
to come through,
through the depths of
who you are, and come up
into your life.
Now one of the
fascinating things--
we'll get into this
on a later show--
is that you can get the energy
and the aspect of the planet
in the 12th house out via one
of the aspects of planets that
are connected to that
planet in the 12th house.
So let's say, for instance, you
have Mercury in the 12th house.
So that would mean that you
are really dreamy, that you're
much more engaged in nonverbal
types of communication.
You might be very poetic.
You might be very psychic.
You might have, at times,
even a learning disability
with Mercury in the 12th.
Doesn't mean that
you're unintelligent,
but it could be difficult
for that energy of Mercury,
the planet of communication,
to come out of the 12th.
Well, let's just
say, for instance,
you have another planet up
here in the ninth house.
Let's say you have the
sun in the ninth house.
Or how about Mars?
Yeah, let's go with the sun.
Sun in the ninth house,
although they probably
wouldn't be that far apart.
Let's make the sun right here
at the edge of the ninth house.
And you have a trine.
Let's say you have a trine--
that should be a sextile.
Let's go with the
sextile, or something
like that with a Mercury
sun to the ninth house.
Then you could have
this energy that
would be manifest and coming
through, and manifesting
in the personality with the
sun near the mid-heaven.
And then the individual
and the personality
can have an opportunity
to bring that energy,
to bring that information, to
bring that flow from the 12th
up here and give it some kind of
form, some kind of expression.
And sometimes it doesn't
have to be a sextile.
Sometimes it could be
a trine, or a square,
or even an opposition
to some extent.
But the key is to have some kind
of contact with another planet,
with that planet
in the 12th house.
But ultimately,
if the individual
has planets there
natally, then they
are here to understand
how the soul operates,
and how the soul operates in
conjunction with having a body.
They have to take time
out of their lives,
at times, to really connect
with themselves at a deep level.
So retreats, or some
form of meditation
is generally
advisable for people
that have a planet or a series
of planets in the 12th house.
Well, we started off
as the individual
coming into the
chart through Aries.
We fell in love in
the fifth house.
We found our purpose
in the sixth.
We met somebody, we got
married in the seventh.
We had sex and
children in the eighth.
We figured out the spiritual,
realization, connotation,
and understanding,
and the philosophical
and the moral ramifications
of all of it in the ninth.
We created the world
and society in the 10th.
And then in the 11th,
we decided that we
needed to cast off a lot
of our social structures
and constraints.
We stepped off into
space from the pyramid
of Capricorn and civilization.
We're driving around
in our jet cars,
and we're beaming to Alpha
Centauri and Betelgeuse.
And now we're into
the 12th house.
We're dissolving back to God.
We're moving back out
of form and into spirit
where we can do this all over
again on some other planet
in some other place
and some other time.
So that's it, boys and girls.
That is the mechanics
of the wheel
in a short amount of time.
So thank you very
much for joining me,
and join me again next time
on "The Eleventh House," where
we explore more mechanics of
astrology and help bring you
more understanding about
this wonderful art form.
That's me, Robert Phoenix,
"The Eleventh House."